docs: RHIDP-1470 Adding Microsoft Azure as an authentication provider (#82)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/auth/proc-adding-azure-as-an-authentication-provider.adoc

*Front-channel logout URL*:: Leave blank.
*Implicit grant and hybrid flows*:: All unchecked.

.. On the *API permissions* tab, click *Add Permission*, then add the following *Delegated permission* for the
*Microsoft Graph API*:

`email`:::
`offline_access`:::
`openid`:::
`profile`:::
`User.Read`:::
(Optionally)::: Optional custom scopes of the Microsoft Graph API defined in the `app-config.yaml` file.

.. (Optionally) Your company might require you to grant admin consent for these permissions.
Even if your company does not require link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/user-admin-consent-overview[admin consent], you might do so as it means users do not need to individually consent the first time they access backstage.
To grant admin consent, a directory admin must go to this page and click the *Grant admin consent for COMPANY NAME* button.

.. Go to the *Certificates & Secrets* page, then the *Client secrets* tab, and create a new client secret.
Save the *Secret* for the next step.

. Set up the Microsoft Azure authentication provider in the {product-short} backend (`app-config.yaml`).
+

> Add the `microsoft` provider configuration to your `app-config.yaml` under the root `auth` configuration, and optionally, enable the `gitlab` provider for sign-in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `microsoft` provider configuration to your `app-config.yaml` under the root `auth` configuration. Make sure to configure `signInPage: microsoft` to ensure that the frontend displays the appropriate authentication provider.
```
the SignInPage is not optional, without it it can behave unpredictably, if someone configures the auth provider, they mostly like want to set the `signInPage` as well.

Feel free to change what I suggested. The main point is that it should mention that signInPage needs to be set

[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: development
  providers:
    microsoft:
      development:
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
        domainHint: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID} # <1>
        # additionalScopes: # <2>
          # - Mail.Send
signInPage: microsoft # <3>
----
+
<1>  Optional for single-tenant applications. You can reduce login friction for users with accounts in multiple tenants by automatically filtering out accounts from other tenants. If you want to use this parameter for a single-tenant application, uncomment and enter the tenant ID. If your application registration is multi-tenant, leave this parameter blank. For more information, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/home-realm-discovery-policy[Home Realm Discovery].
<2> Optional for additional scopes. To add scopes for the application registration, uncomment and enter the list of scopes that you want to add.
The default and mandatory value is `['user.read']`.
<3> To enable the Microsoft Azure provider as default sign-in provider.

> . Optional for environments with restrictions on outgoing access, such as firewall rules. If your environment has outgoing access restrictions make sure your Backstage backend has access to the following hosts:
> 
> * `login.microsoftonline.com`: To get and exchange authorization codes and access tokens.
> 
> * `graph.microsoft.com`: To fetch user profile information (as seen in this source code).
> If this host is unreachable, users might see an _Authentication failed, failed to fetch user profile_ error when they attempt to log in.

Author: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
Optional for environments with restrictions on outgoing access, such as firewall rules. If your environment has outgoing access restrictions make sure your Backstage backend has access to the following hosts:

* `login.microsoftonline.com`: To get and exchange authorization codes and access tokens.

* `graph.microsoft.com`: To fetch user profile information (as seen in this source code).
If this host is unreachable, users might see an _Authentication failed, failed to fetch user profile_ error when they attempt to log in.
====
```

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to authenticate with Microsoft Azure, create an OAuth Application in Microsoft Azure.

.. Go to link:https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade[*Azure Portal > App registrations*], and create an *App Registration* for {product-short}.

.. On your *App registration* overview page, add a new *Web platform configuration*, with the configuration:

*Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product-short}: `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/microsoft/handler/frame]`
*Front-channel logout URL*:: Leave blank.
*Implicit grant and hybrid flows*:: Leave all checkboxes cleared.

.. On the *API permissions* tab, click *Add Permission*, then add the following *Delegated permission* for the
*Microsoft Graph API*:

`email`:::
`offline_access`:::
`openid`:::
`profile`:::
`User.Read`:::
(Optional)::: Optional custom scopes of the Microsoft Graph API that you define both here and in the {product-short} configuration (`app-config-rhdh.yaml`).

NOTE: Your company might require you to grant admin consent for these permissions.

> Even if your company does not require link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/user-admin-consent-overview[admin consent], you might do so as it means users do not need to individually consent the first time they access backstage.
> To grant admin consent, a directory admin must go to this page and click *Grant admin consent for COMPANY NAME*.

Author: ```suggestion
Even if your company does not require link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/user-admin-consent-overview[admin consent], you might do so as it means users do not need to individually consent the first time they access backstage.
To grant admin consent, a directory admin must go to this page and click *Grant admin consent for COMPANY NAME*.
```
```suggestion
Even if your company does not require admin consent, you might do so as it means users do not need to individually consent the first time they access backstage.
To grant admin consent, a directory admin must go to the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/user-admin-consent-overview[admin consent] page and click *Grant admin consent for COMPANY NAME*.
```

Even if your company does not require link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/user-admin-consent-overview[admin consent], you might do so as it means users do not need to individually consent the first time they access backstage.
To grant admin consent, a directory admin must go to this page and click the *Grant admin consent for COMPANY NAME* button.

.. Go to the *Certificates & Secrets* page, then the *Client secrets* tab, and create a new client secret.
Save the *Client secret* for the next step.

. Add your Gitlab credentials in your {product-short} secrets.
+
Edit your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`.
+
Add the following key/value pairs:
+
`AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the *Application ID* that you generated on Microsoft Azure.
`AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the *Client secret* that you generated on Microsoft Azure.
`AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID`:: Enter your *Tenant ID* on Microsoft Azure.

. Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration.
+
Edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`.
+

> In the `app-config-rhdh.yml` content, add the `microsoft` provider configuration under the root `auth` configuration, and enable the `microsoft` provider for sign-in:

Author: ```suggestion
In the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content, add the `microsoft` provider configuration under the root `auth` configuration, and enable the `microsoft` provider for sign-in:
```

[id='proc-adding-azure-as-an-authentication-provider_{context}']
= Enabling the Microsoft Azure authentication provider

{product} includes a Microsoft Azure authentication provider that can authenticate users by using OAuth.

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to authenticate with Microsoft Azure, create an OAuth Application in Microsoft Azure.

.. Go to link:https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade[*Azure Portal > App registrations*], and create an *App Registration* for {product-short}.

.. On your *App registration* overview page, add a new *Web platform configuration*, with the configuration:

*Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product-short}: `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/microsoft/handler/frame]`
*Front-channel logout URL*:: Leave blank.

> *Implicit grant and hybrid flows*:: All unchecked.

Author: ```suggestion
*Implicit grant and hybrid flows*:: Leave all checkboxes cleared.
```

.. On the *API permissions* tab, click *Add Permission*, then add the following *Delegated permission* for the
*Microsoft Graph API*:

`email`:::
`offline_access`:::
`openid`:::
`profile`:::
`User.Read`:::

> (Optionally)::: Optional custom scopes of the Microsoft Graph API that you define also in the {product-short} configuration (`app-config-rhdh.yaml`).

Author: ```suggestion
(Optional)::: Optional custom scopes of the Microsoft Graph API that you define both here and in the {product-short} configuration (`app-config-rhdh.yaml`).
```

.. (Optionally) Your company might require you to grant admin consent for these permissions.
Even if your company does not require link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/user-admin-consent-overview[admin consent], you might do so as it means users do not need to individually consent the first time they access backstage.
To grant admin consent, a directory admin must go to this page and click the *Grant admin consent for COMPANY NAME* button.

.. Go to the *Certificates & Secrets* page, then the *Client secrets* tab, and create a new client secret.

> Save the *Client secret* for the next step.
> 
> . Add your Gitlab credentials in your {product-short} secrets.
> +
> Edit your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`.
> +
> Add the following key/value pairs:
> +
> `AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the *Application ID* that you generated on Microsoft Azure.
> `AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the *Client secret* that you generated on Microsoft Azure.
> `AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID`:: Enter your *Tenant ID* on Microsoft Azure.
> 
> . Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration.
> +
> Edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`.
> +
> In the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content, add the `microsoft` provider configuration under the root `auth` configuration, and enable the `microsoft` provider for sign-in:

Author: ```suggestion
Save the *Client secret* for the next step.

. Add your Gitlab credentials in your {product-short} secrets.

.. Edit your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`.

.. Add the following key/value pairs:
+
`AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the *Application ID* that you generated on Microsoft Azure.
`AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the *Client secret* that you generated on Microsoft Azure.
`AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID`:: Enter your *Tenant ID* on Microsoft Azure.

. Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration.
+
Edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`.
+
In the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content, add the `microsoft` provider configuration under the root `auth` configuration, and enable the `microsoft` provider for sign-in:
```

+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: development
  providers:
    microsoft:
      development:
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
        domainHint: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID} # <1>
        # additionalScopes: # <2>
          # - Mail.Send
signInPage: microsoft # <3>
----
+

> <1> Optionally, when your application is not multi tenant,
> to reduce login friction for users with accounts in multiple tenants
> by automatically filtering away accounts from other tenants:
> uncomment, and enter the tenant id.
> Typically, the same as `tenantId`.
> Leave blank if your app registration is multi tenant.
> See link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/home-realm-discovery-policy[Home Realm Discovery].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1>  Optional for single-tenant applications. You can reduce login friction for users with accounts in multiple tenants by automatically filtering out accounts from other tenants. If you want to use this parameter for a single-tenant application, uncomment and enter the tenant ID. If your application registration is multi-tenant, leave this parameter blank. For more information, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/home-realm-discovery-policy[Home Realm Discovery].
```

Reviewer 2: This new wording might need to be double-checked by a SME, and I'm not exactly sure what _uncomment_ means, but I think this revision more clearly communicates our intended message.

> <2> Optionally, to add scopes for the App Registration: uncomment and enter the scopes list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> Optional for additional scopes. To add scopes for the application registration, uncomment and enter the list of scopes that you want to add.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not actually sure if App Registration should be capitalized or abbreviated to app.

The default and mandatory value is `['user.read']`.
<3> To enable the Microsoft Azure provider as default sign-in provider.

> . Optionally, when your environment has restrictions on outgoing access, for instance through firewall rules, make sure your Backstage backend has access to the following hosts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Optional for environments with restrictions on outgoing access, such as firewall rules. If your environment has outgoing access restrictions make sure your Backstage backend has access to the following hosts:
```

`login.microsoftonline.com`:: To get and exchange authorization codes and access tokens.

> `graph.microsoft.com`:: To fetch user profile information (as seen in this source code).

Reviewer 2: Add bullets before the listed hosts

Author: ```suggestion
* `login.microsoftonline.com`: To get and exchange authorization codes and access tokens.

* `graph.microsoft.com`: To fetch user profile information (as seen in this source code).
```
